HTML is a body of the part which can do web devolopment.
css is a make up of the part which can do web degsingig
about html:-

<!DOCTYPE>: It defines the document type or it instruct the browser about the version of HTML.

<html > :This tag informs the browser that it is an HTML document. Text between html tag describes the web document. It is a container for all other elements of HTML except <!DOCTYPE>

<head>: It should be the first element inside the <html> element, which contains the metadata(information about the document). It must be closed before the body tag opens.

<title>: As its name suggested, it is used to add title of that HTML page which appears at the top of the browser window. It must be placed inside the head tag and should close immediately. (Optional)

<body> : Text between body tag describes the body content of the page that is visible to the end user. This tag contains the main content of the HTML document.

<h1> : Text between <h1> tag describes the first level heading of the webpage.

Since the time HTML was invented there are lots of HTML versions in market, the brief introduction about the HTML version is given below:

HTML 1.0: The first version of HTML was 1.0, which was the barebones version of HTML language, and it was released in1991.


HTML 2.0: This was the next version which was released in 1995, and it was standard language version for website design. HTML 2.0 was able to support extra features such as form-based file upload, form elements such as text box, option button, etc.

HTML 3.2: HTML 3.2 version was published by W3C in early 1997. This version was capable of creating tables and providing support for extra options for form elements. It can also support a web page with complex mathematical equations. It became an official standard for any browser till January 1997. Today it is practically supported by most of the browsers.

HTML 4.01: HTML 4.01 version was released on December 1999, and it is a very stable version of HTML language. This version is the current official standard, and it provides added support for stylesheets (CSS) and scripting ability for various multimedia elements.


HTML5 : HTML5 is the newest version of HyperText Markup language. The first draft of this version was announced in January 2008. There are two major organizations one is W3C (World Wide Web Consortium), and another one is WHATWG( Web Hypertext Application Technology Working Group) which are involved in the development of HTML 5 version, and still, it is under development.

Features of HTML
1) It is a very easy and simple language. It can be easily understood and modified.

2) It is very easy to make an effective presentation with HTML because it has a lot of formatting tags.

3) It is a markup language, so it provides a flexible way to design web pages along with the text.

4) It facilitates programmers to add a link on the web pages (by html anchor tag), so it enhances the interest of browsing of the user.


5) It is platform-independent because it can be displayed on any platform like Windows, Linux, and Macintosh, etc.

6) It facilitates the programmer to add Graphics, Videos, and Sound to the web pages which makes it more attractive and interactive.

7) HTML is a case-insensitive language, which means we can use tags either in lower-case or upper-case.
 
about cssin html:- 
CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheets.

CSS saves a lot of work. It can control the layout of multiple web pages all at once.
What is CSS?
Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) is used to format the layout of a webpage.

With CSS, you can control the color, font, the size of text, the spacing between elements, how elements are positioned and laid out, what background images or background colors are to be used, different displays for different devices and screen sizes, and much more!
Using CSS
CSS can be added to HTML documents in 3 ways:

Inline - by using the style attribute inside HTML elements
Internal - by using a <style> element in the <head> section
External - by using a <link> element to link to an external CSS file
The most common way to add CSS, is to keep the styles in external CSS files. However, in this tutorial we will use inline and internal styles, because this is easier to demonstrate, and easier for you to try it yourself.

Inline CSS
An inline CSS is used to apply a unique style to a single HTML element.

An inline CSS uses the style attribute of an HTML element.

The following example sets the text color of the <h1> element to blue, and the text color of the <p> element to red:
Internal CSS
An internal CSS is used to define a style for a single HTML page.

An internal CSS is defined in the <head> section of an HTML page, within a <style> element.

The following example sets the text color of ALL the <h1> elements (on that page) to blue, and the text color of ALL the <p> elements to red. In addition, the page will be displayed with a "powderblue" background color: 
External CSS
An external style sheet is used to define the style for many HTML pages.

To use an external style sheet, add a link to it in the <head> section of each HTML page:
The external style sheet can be written in any text editor. The file must not contain any HTML code, and must be saved with a .css extension.

Here is what the "styles.css" file looks like: 
